[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to take
you on a ride today.
I'm going to take you on a
espionage, counterintelligence,
some might call disinformation
ride with Paul Bennewitz.
That's a little humor
I always like to start
my presentations off with.
But we're going to talk about
this guy, Paul Bennewitz.
It's probably one of
the most known about,
secret government operations
that I was involved with,
and the operation was called
Operation Seven Lambs,
and we'll explain
that in a little bit.
First of all, about
me, I'm not going
to go into great
details about myself.
Most of you know who I
am and what I've done.
But I come from a
military family.
My father was in the Air Force.
He retired 33
years as a colonel.
He was a pilot before he
became an intelligence officer.
Father was shot down in
Korea, and after that, he
didn't fly again.
But he went into intelligence.
He didn't delve into
this game or this enigma
of UFO activities.
He was what we call a positive
intelligence collector.
He did that for his entire
time other than the time
he spent as a pilot.
But on the other hand, my uncle,
my dad's brother, Major Edward
Doty, was in fact, a Project
Blue Book investigator.
Some of you will probably
know about the Lonnie Zamora
incident in Socorro,
New Mexico, in 1964.
My uncle investigated
that as Project Blue Book.
And then there's my
cousin, Richard L. Doty.
He was an operations officer
for the Central Intelligence
Agency.
He's retired now, also.
And then David, who was
Defense Intelligence Agency.
So I came from somewhat of
an intelligence background,
and one of the questions
I'm asked all the time
was did they recruit
you into intelligence
because my father, my uncle,
and cousins were there?
Well, you know,
honestly speaking,
I was never told
that I was, but there
were a lot of hints passed
along during my career
that you're here
because of your family.
OK, who am I?
I served in active duty,
United States Air Force.
I was in again, in
something specialized
during my enlisted
days in the Air Force,
just 4 and 1/2 years.
I also was in the National Guard
for a short period of time.
I got out.
I went to college, and then
I went back in, recruited in,
to the intelligence community.
Now a lot of people
don't realize
that in the United
States, there's
various intelligence agencies.
But if you go into intelligence
or counterintelligence,
counterespionage, you're
trained in one particular place,
and that's the Intelligence
Operations Course.
And you go through a
lot of training, a lot
of vast amount of training.
I was talking to
some people earlier
about some of the stupid things
they did to us to test us, test
our abilities to concentrate
on a particular matter
without going to pieces.
And my particular
class was 60 candidates
that went through the class.
Only 18 of us made
it out of there.
So it wasn't easy.
It wasn't anything like SEAL
training or anything like that,
but it was still tough.
I stayed and I retired in
what we call, in the States,
as combined, government service.
You serve so many times.
Your military can count
against civilian service.
I also worked for a
short period of time
as an investigator for
New Mexico State Police.
And then I went to
work for Dr. Puthoff,
at the Institute for Advanced
Studies in Austin, Texas.
A lot of that information that
we gathered during that time
period, I can relate back to
the subjects of UFOs or reverse
engineering.
But unfortunately, that
was a private company,
and we're going to talk
about this a little bit.
It's a private company, and
there's proprietary safeguards.
So I can't talk and
disclose everything
I did during that time period.
And since then, I've worked
for a number of film companies.
I've been on the air
a number of times.
And then in 2017, I
started working for Gaia.
I have approximately
25 episodes on Gaia.
I want to thank Gaia.
I want to thank Vitaly.
I want to thank this
wonderful crowd out here.
I mean, I spoke to a
lot of people out here,
and it's a fantastic event.
And I'm glad you're here.
OK, let's delve
into Paul Bennewitz.
This operation, I ran, and there
were others involved in this.
Once you hear and
see this, you would
swear this is a movie plot
or a script for a movie.
I don't think there's
anybody out there, eh, maybe
Steven Spielberg or maybe Sid
Goldberg, my boss, out here
in the crowd, might be able
to write a script like that.
But it has a little
bit of everything.
It contains espionage, sabotage,
abductions, alien abductions,
and other strange phenomena,
which you probably won't even
believe when I get into it.
It includes real contacts,
absolutely real proven contacts
that Paul Bennewitz
had with ETs,
and that will be
discussed in a little bit.
But anyways, most
of this information
hasn't been released.
Some of it has.
I've given this presentation
several years ago,
but I didn't have a
lot of the details
because it was still classified.
In 2019, the Air Force and the
Defense Intelligence Agency
released a lot of information
about Paul Bennewitz.
Unfortunately, most
of those are redacted,
and I'm sure some
of you researchers
out here can relate to that.
You get a document from the
Central Intelligence Agency
or Air Force or something
and most of it's blacked out.
This one was but you
can fill in the blanks
in a lot of these things,
and I try to do that.
OK, who was Bob Bennewitz?
He was born in California.
There we go.
He was born in
California, in 1927.
He grew up, and at the age of
14, he moved to New Mexico.
His father was a miner.
A lot of mining going
on in New Mexico
back in those days,
uranium mining.
At the age of 17,
he wandered away.
Paul wandered away,
went to California,
and joined the United
States Coast Guard.
This is during World War
II, and Paul actually
saw actions in and around the
Pacific in the Coast Guard.
Few people realize
that the Coast Guard
was, in fact, a
combat organization
attached to the Army during war.
And so Paul saw action there.
Paul attended college, got
a Bachelor's of Science
in engineering, went on
and got a master's degree.
And then he started
his own laboratory
in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
It's called Thunder
Scientific Laboratories.
It's right outside the
gate, one of the main gates
to Kirtland Air Force Base.
He managed to get a contract to
make temperature and humidity
sensors for submarines.
Paul's interest in UFOs
began in New Mexico.
He took his family on a trip to
northern New Mexico, a camping
trip.
Him and his family saw a
UFO, not just one, but many.
And Paul's story
about this, I wish
I could tell you all of it,
but I have limited time.
Paul started reading
everything he could about UFOs.
What they were,
where they came from.
Paul joined MUFON, CAUS,
all the other UFO groups.
In fact, he was the Director
of Operations for MUFON
in New Mexico for
a number of years
before this incident happened.
Now Paul lived in
Southeast Albuquerque,
in the area called Four Hills.
And Four Hills is adjacent to
the perimeter of Kirtland Air
Force Base.
I'm going to show you a
map here in a little bit.
And Paul's house was
right on the perimeter.
Now, inside this base,
directly in view of Paul,
was the largest
nuclear weapons storage
in the world, Manzano Base.
It was called Manzano
Weapons Storage Area,
but in actuality, it was a
nuclear weapon storage area.
The billet in the '50
dug it out of a mountain,
and they put together both
the fission and the fusion
nuclear weapons
inside that mountain.
Paul was also a camera
buff, amateur photographer.
He saw some things
flying around Kirtland.
Didn't know what they were.
So he set up his camera out
on his patio, brand new AE-1
camera.
This is in 1979.
Some of the older
people here probably
can remember what
a Canon AE-1 is.
And other electronic
gathering and devices.
Now he was a scientist.
So he knew how to collect
signals, frequencies,
radiation,
electromagnetic waves,
and he had all these
monitors out on his patio.
He directed his camera and the
equipment towards the base, not
necessarily Manzano
but just the base.
Also inside this base was a
very, very extremely sensitive
area.
It was called the
Starlight Complex.
Starlight Complex was a
National Security Agency,
that's another intelligence
agency in the United
States, that collected
signal intelligence
and electronic intelligence
for the intelligence community.
They had a special
laser out there
at that base in that complex.
And I'm going to talk
about that in a bit
and exactly what that did.
Paul started collecting
all these strange signals.
Started photographing these
strange lights and objects
that were flying around the
base, both around the runway--
now, Kirtland Air
Force Base shares
a runway with Albuquerque
International Airport.
Or I like to say Albuquerque
International Airport
shares the runway
with the Air Force,
because the Air Force
had priority control
over of the airstrip.
And he didn't know what
to do with this stuff.
So he went to a retired
military person.
He told his military
person, hey,
I saw all these strange
things flying around the base.
What do you think I should do?
And this colonel says, I
think you should report it.
So and that's what Paul did.
Paul eventually contacted
Lieutenant Colonel Ernie
Edwards.
Colonel Edwards was the
commander of the security
force guarding Manzano Base.
And Paul says,
listen, I've collected
all these photographs, all
these electronic signals
from the base.
I'm not a spy.
I'm a loyal American.
I'm a veteran, and I'm
afraid that there's
a danger to national security.
So he came out to the base,
talked to Colonel Edwards.
Colonel Edwards saw everything
he had and Ernie Edwards said,
my god, this is amazing.
So immediately, he
called me on the phone.
I was a counterintelligence
officer for the base.
He said, you got
to come down here.
You got to look at what I
just got from this guy that
lives right outside the base.
So I did.
I went down.
I looked at everything.
I said, wow, this is amazing.
So I knew, looking at
the photographs of what
Paul initially photographed.
Now, at Kirtland, there's a
research and development entity
or unit called the Air
Force Weapons Laboratory,
and they were testing all
sorts of different things,
high-energy lasers.
And at that time,
and this is 1979,
'80s, was a highly
classified drone program.
So I took one look
at the pictures,
and I was the
counterintelligence
of the base.
I knew what was going on.
So I did a report, send
it up to headquarters,
and headquarters was fascinated
by what this guy was doing.
But they were also very
concerned about it.
So I get a message back saying
you need to interview this guy,
and we need to see what
he has and investigate it.
Now, in the government, in
the United States government
and especially in the
intelligence community,
we didn't do anything
without an operational plan.
Now people who have been in
the military or in government,
you know what I'm talking about.
You got to have a plan.
And so the plan came
down from headquarters.
And so they told me go
out and interview him.
Collect as much
information as you can.
And so I did.
I called him.
I introduced myself.
I said, here's what I need.
Can you make time for
me to interview you?
He said, yeah, sure, come on.
So I went over to his lab.
I sat down with him.
He showed me what he had, and
I accepted everything he had.
I mean, I took everything
that he gave me.
And I said, wow,
that's fascinating,
but why are you
doing this, Paul?
Why are you photographing
things on the base?
He said, I'm concerned.
I'm a veteran.
I'm a loyal American.
I have a-- it's called an
industrial security clearance
with the government,
making humidity sensors
and temperature sensors for
submarines and spacecrafts.
And I'm concerned that there's
there's danger to the base.
I said, OK, and then
he started telling me
about all his past history
about investigating
cattle mutilations, UFOs.
He was a member of MUFON.
He talked about all
these things to me.
And I just sat there
and listened to Paul.
And Paul had met,
in another realm,
we're going to--
hopefully, I'll get to--
of another incident that
happened involving an abduction
incident.
Anyways, he talked to a woman
by the name of Tamara Lancroft.
She was an intelligence officer,
a civilian intelligence officer
for the 650th MI, which
is a military intelligence
unit on Kirtland.
And their primary mission was
protecting nuclear material,
nuclear weapons.
He also had contact
with Gabe Valdez.
Now, a lot of you know
who Gabe Valdez is,
and if you don't know, he
was a New Mexico State police
officer, who lived in
northern New Mexico.
And he was the first person
that came upon and investigated
cattle mutilations.
He was the very, very first one.
He did very, very
detailed reports.
He got the FBI and everybody
else involved in this.
And then Paul told me
about Myrna Hansen.
Myrna Hansen was an abductee.
And she was abducted, and he
was working with Leo Sprinkle
regarding her.
Anyways, after I spoke to
Paul, gathered all the videos
and photographs, I went back
and sat down with my supervisor.
And he says, OK, you need to
do a very detailed report.
We need to send this up to
headquarters, which I did.
And headquarters says they
want more information.
The operational plan came down
and said, you need to go out,
and we need to conduct a
counterintelligence operation
against Paul Bennewitz.
Now, I know that sounds
pretty horrible, right?
And in your words,
that meant Rick Doty
was going to go out and run
a disinformation campaign
against Paul Bennewitz.
Well, that's exactly what I did.
That's the mission.
I was given the mission.
I did what I was told to
do, and I'll show you later
that I was commended for it.
But here's the difference.
Paul was a true
believer in UFOs.
He was thoroughly convinced that
what he was taking pictures of
were, in fact, UFOs.
I knew they were drones.
The only thing I
didn't know about
was the electronic signals
that Paul was collecting.
Where is that coming from?
Well, what Paul tapped
into was, at that time
and it's not classified anymore,
was a highly classified program
that the United States had
to blind Soviet satellites
coming over the United States.
The NSA had a high-energy
laser that they
could shoot up in
the air, hit the lens
of the Soviet satellite,
and blind them
so the Soviets
couldn't take pictures
of what was on the ground.
We had one at different
locations in the United States,
including Kirtland, Area 51, and
other places around the United
States.
Paul was detecting the
frequency used by that laser.
Now at the time, I wasn't
fully briefed into this,
but that's what he was doing.
But I was told to go out,
collect everything I can,
and convince Paul that
what he was seeing
was, in fact, refers
and not obviously,
a classified program.
I couldn't brief him into that.
We get deeper.
So I go out to Paul, and
I tell him, Paul, I said,
what do you think it is?
And Paul says, well, it's UFOs.
I know it's UFOs.
I'm adamant about it.
I said, do you think that the
signals are also from UFOs?
Absolutely.
A side note here, Paul knew
about Dulce, New Mexico.
He was up there many times.
Paul was a private pilot.
Took pictures up
there, came back,
and we'll talk about that
in a little bit, too.
And so I said, you
know what, Paul?
I think you're right.
I think what you're
seeing are exactly UFOs.
Now you can believe
me if you want.
That's the only convincing I had
to do to Paul Bennewitz for him
to believe that there were UFOs.
My job was finished.
I convinced him.
He's thinking it's UFOs.
I knew it wasn't UFOs.
OK, this is where things change.
Now remember, my job
was to convince him--
disinformation, you call it.
We call it counterintelligence--
that what he was seeing
was UFOs.
Paul invited myself
and another agent.
And Jerry Miller,
now Jerry Miller,
I haven't really talked about.
Jerry Miller was a former
Project Blue Book investigator.
He came up with me
and interviewed Paul.
I came out to the house, at
Paul's house, at his lab,
and he was a scientist.
I'm not a scientist.
My background isn't in science.
So I had to bring
somebody that knew
what they were looking at as
far as signals and so forth.
Anyways, we went out one night
to Paul's house for dinner.
And I had another agent with me
by the name of Steve and Jerry
Miller.
After dinner, we went into
a room off the dining room.
There's a couch.
I'm sitting on a couch.
Steve's sitting next to me.
Jerry's sitting over
here in a lounge
chair and then Paul Bennewitz.
I'm facing a wall, just a wall.
There's just a
picture on the wall.
And during our
conversation, it's
just a casual conversation
about weather and nothing
to do with the subject matter.
And while I'm
looking at the wall,
in the lower, left-hand
corner of the wall,
I see this pulsating light.
And I'm watching this.
And it's moving,
but it's not moving
other than just that corner.
Well, Steve, next to me,
jabs me, and says, look.
And I'm looking at this thing.
And I look over at Jerry, and
the first thing Jerry Miller--
now, Jerry is a seasoned
UFO investigator.
Jerry says, points to his watch.
Now at first, I didn't really
understand what he was saying.
But I caught on later that
he said, look at the time.
Make sure we are not
going to miss any time.
Anyways, this orb
moved up and around
and all around the wall,
all around the room.
And as it was in the
middle-- now at first,
I thought it was a light, a
beam from a light behind me.
But there was a hutch behind me.
So I'm looking all
over for some kind
of flashlight or something,
and I couldn't find it.
But when it came out in a
three-dimensional shape,
I knew it wasn't a light.
I'm thinking, how the
heck did he do this?
I'm thinking Paul's doing this.
I'm looking over at Paul, and
Paul's just staring at it.
He's not making eye
contact with anybody.
As it moves around the
room, I'm looking at Jerry.
I'm looking all around, waiting
for somebody to say anything.
About that time, Paul's wife
comes out from the kitchen
through the dining room,
and she has a tray.
We were having coffee.
She was going to get
more coffee to us.
And she stopped and
looked up, and she
said, oh, our friend is back.
And that kind of broke the ice.
The object then
went exactly back
to where it came
from and disappeared.
Now what did we just see?
I immediately confronted Paul.
I'm a straight shooter.
I'm good at interrogation.
I said, Paul, what
have you just done?
Paul says, I haven't
done anything.
I was convinced
Paul was doing this.
Jerry was, too.
Jerry said, you know what?
What we just seen is--
you got to tell us
how you did it, Paul.
I didn't.
I didn't do anything.
So Paul allowed us to
bring Jerry's equipment in.
We scanned the house.
We checked.
We couldn't figure
out how it happened.
But that is an incident
that I will never forget,
and that kind of changes the
course of our investigation.
I went back, and I did a
very, more detailed report.
And plus, I added
all the information
that we collected
during our investigation
at Paul's residence.
We couldn't find anything
that would indicate or prove
or any kind of equipment that
would have generated such orb.
Now, against a wall,
I can understand it
because we actually
duplicated that.
But when it flew out in
a three-dimensional--
in the middle of the room, we
don't know how he did that.
But we were then convinced,
after thorough investigation,
that what happened
in Paul's house
was, in fact, not
connected to Paul,
and it wasn't connected
to anything that we did.
So who did that?
So what we did then was
we kind of changed tones
in the investigation.
We thought, well,
OK, maybe, maybe Paul
is telling the truth.
Now, Paul had a computer and
the computer that Paul had,
he was collecting strange
characters, almost
like Chinese characters
or Egyptian hieroglyphs,
on his computer.
And we photographed
these things.
He also, and we'll go
into this in a little bit,
a figure appeared
on his monitor.
Now, this is back in 1980.
No color computer monitors.
They were very crude back
then compared to today.
So it's a
black-and-white monitor.
The image that came on, and I'm
going to show you this image,
is color.
How did that happen?
Now we also have espionage
involved in this and sabotage,
but I'm not going to get
into great details on that
because it didn't relate
to Paul's UFO connections.
What I want to go into now
is what Paul was doing,
what Paul was collecting
on his monitor,
and what Paul saw
and did later on.
As this case
progressed, we realized
that there's a
possibility, and we
sat in a secure room,
the bubble, we called it,
and with people coming
down from headquarters,
high-ranking officials
coming down from headquarters
and the Defense Intelligence
Agency and the Air Force
Intelligence.
And we're sitting
around a table talking
about what just happened.
Paul was invited out to
the base, and he came out
and he gave a demonstration
to all these top-ranking--
in fact, the people
in this room,
other than myself, who
was just a Special Agent,
were at least a colonel.
We had five generals,
and we had some GM,
which is civilian equivalent
to generals, GM16s and 17s.
He gave a presentation.
They all scratched their head.
How does he do this stuff?
Well, how is he doing that
and what did he collect?
Number one, as I
told you earlier,
Paul tapped into NSA signals.
And he unwittingly did this.
He didn't do it to collect
espionage material.
He didn't know what
he was collecting.
While we were running our
operation, unbeknownst to us,
the National Security
Agency was running
their own investigation.
There was an incident that
happened out at Paul's house.
We were out of Paul's house,
myself and this other agent.
And we were searching
around the house,
looking at different things.
And we were up in his--
he had a large window that
looked out into the street
from his bedroom.
And as I looked
across the street,
and it was a rainy
night in Albuquerque.
I see this red light in
this window, on and off.
And I asked Paul, I said,
who lives over there, Paul?
Paul says, nobody.
It's vacant.
I said, somebody is
over there, Paul.
Look at that red light.
He goes, wow.
So myself and the other
agent, we were federal agents.
We have guns.
And so we went over there.
And before I left, I called
Albuquerque Police Department.
I had contacts down there.
I said, hey, can you send
a patrol car out here?
We got a situation, maybe
a breaking and entering
or something.
So they did.
They sent a couple of
officers out there.
We went over.
We confronted the two
people that came down.
What are you guys doing here?
Oh, we rented this place.
What company do you work for?
We work for Avis Rental Car.
You work for Avis
Rental Car, and you're
taking pictures of
Paul Bennewitz's house
from up there?
What?
You can't even see his cars.
Did he rent a car and
not turn it back or what?
And they wouldn't talk.
They wouldn't
really tell us much.
They wouldn't allow
us in, either.
Because the Albuquerque
Police officers--
and this is civilian
jurisdiction, not federal--
said, we want to come and
look at what you got in there.
They said, no, not
without a warrant.
Well, after this happened, the
next day, I went out to NSA,
and I know the guy.
His name is Ferguson.
He's the chief of
security out there.
And I said, listen,
you got two options.
You tell me what you're
doing against Paul Bennewitz,
or I'm going to come out
here with a federal warrant
and search your files.
And he said, OK, let
me get you briefed in.
And he tells me the story.
I said, you guys are
investigating Paul
and you didn't tell us?
That's interfering with
a federal investigation.
That's against the law.
He said no, no, no, we're not
doing it for criminal matter.
We're just doing it to
collect what he has.
Well, they did.
They continued, and we're going
to get into what they did.
Another incident that happened
which solidified our beliefs
that Paul really had contact
with extraterrestrials, Paul
was a pilot, like
I said earlier.
Paul flew a plane.
He had a plane, a Cessna 180.
He flew it up to Dulce.
He had with him, in the
right seat, a photographer
that worked at his laboratory.
And this guy was an
expert photographer,
and he had a camera with him.
And they were
going to photograph
Dulce Base, or at least
the top of the mountain,
the top of Archuleta Peak.
Now we all know what's supposed
to be there and the legend
there and so forth and so on.
I wish I could go into
that, but I don't have time.
Anyways, as they were
flying back over Red River,
New Mexico, which is
in northern New Mexico,
Paul had an encounter
with a UFO, a huge UFO.
This thing was so huge,
you could have probably
put 10 Cessna 180s in there.
A Cessna 180 is a
single-engine plane.
And ironically, this
UFO came right up,
and the right wing of Paul's
sat on top of that, the UFO,
as if, Paul thought
that they were trying
to make some kind of contact.
Now, of course, the
photographer was over here,
after he probably had to change
his pants, took pictures.
And he took a lot of pictures.
And so when Paul got back
to his office, he called me.
He said, got to come over
here and see these pictures.
I said, pictures of what?
He said, you just
got to come over
here and see these pictures.
I said, OK.
And Paul had his own laboratory,
photo lab So I went over there,
and I sat down,
and he showed me.
He had 8-by-10s, 10-by-12s.
He had them all over his desk.
And I'm looking at him.
I say, where did you
get these from, Paul?
He said, I took them.
Jason, who is a
photographer, took them.
I said, where?
He said, over northern
Mexico, near Red River.
So I said, well can
we get the negatives?
I need to send them back.
Sure.
Paul gave me the negatives.
We sent them back
to headquarters.
They analyzed them, and
now we're convinced.
We're convinced
that Paul Bennewitz,
of Thunder Scientific, has
got into a very touchy area.
Now, at this point,
the Air Force
had to admit, not to him,
of course, to themselves
that Paul Bennewitz
was, in fact, in contact
with extraterrestrials.
Now, Paul called me one
night, about midnight.
The phone rings.
I'm not married back then.
In those days, I didn't
have a social life.
But I'm living in my
apartment, and the phone rings.
I pick it up, and Paul
is very hysterical.
He says, you got
to get over here.
You got to get over here.
Please.
Please, Richard.
I said whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa.
Calm down, Paul.
I said, if you got an
emergency, somebody breaking in
or something, you
need to call 911.
Call the Albuquerque Police.
No, no, no, no.
It's what's on my computer.
You got to come and see this.
I said, oh, OK, you know?
So I get dressed I call
another agent, Virginia,
a female agent.
And I say, hey,
get dressed, and we
got to go out to Paul
Bennewitz's house.
So I'm thinking, Paul is--
he was already not--
he wasn't in very good
physical condition.
Paul was a chain smoker.
He had high blood pressure.
He had kidney problems.
He drank probably five or six
quarts of Coca-Cola a day,
plus probably 10 or
12 cups of coffee.
He had a lot of
medical problems.
I was afraid that
he was going to have
some kind of medical episode.
So we get to his house, and
Paul, says you got to come up.
I said, whoa, whoa,
whoa, first of all,
Paul, I want you to sit
down here, right here,
and calm down.
He was sweating.
He was almost hysterical,
despondent in some ways.
Virginia had been a medic in
the United States military
before she came
into intelligence.
And so I said, check
him out, make sure
he's not going to
have a heart attack.
And so she did.
And I said, OK.
Once he was calmed down, I
said, let's go see what you got.
He went upstairs.
He said, look.
And this is what
was on the computer.
That picture.
I looked at that thing, and this
is a black-and-white computer.
And this is the actual
picture we took.
We took a picture of
the computer screen,
because we had no
other way to connect
a camera to the monitor,
like you could do today,
back in those days.
Well, I was flabbergasted.
I said, well, how
did this come about?
He said, the voices
came on, talking to me.
I said, well, what language
were they speaking, Paul?
He said English, but it was as
if it was a mechanical English.
A lot of people who have
had abduction experiences
or contactees know
what I'm talking about,
a mechanically-induced sound.
So I was pretty excited, and
I didn't have any equipment
with me to try to take
a picture at that point,
but I called somebody else,
one of our ace photographers.
Woke him up.
You get out here.
Take a picture of this.
And then we took the
monitor back to the office,
and we had a couple agents
who were experts in computers,
even back in those
days, and they
were trying to figure
out how did he do this?
But that's our mentality,
which I can admit now,
it's a big mistake.
We didn't accept everything
that Paul was telling us,
but this picture, I was
convinced that Paul, somehow,
got this in.
Now, the next day,
we got his computer.
Brought it back.
We couldn't get it
off the computer.
We couldn't-- there's no way
we could other than taking
a picture of a picture.
So I went back to Paul,
and I asked Paul, I said,
Paul, number one,
we knew, this isn't
the monitor you had before.
When did you buy this?
He said, I didn't buy it.
I said, who bought it for you?
He said, Allen Hynek
and Leo Sprinkle.
I said, what?
He said, yeah, they brought
it to my house some weeks ago.
Well, this changes the
dynamics of our investigation,
like interference.
I said, why did you
let them do that, Paul?
I said, why didn't
you tell me this?
He said, I'm sorry.
I didn't think anything of it.
They came here.
We talked about it.
I said, what else did
they talk to you about?
He said, well,
they were convinced
that I was in
contact with aliens,
and they were going to
decode the symbols that
came on my computer.
So this presented some problems
to us in our investigation.
I actually had a conversation
with Allen Hynek,
a nice, cordial
conversation with him.
I didn't want him to
think or to have access
to what we have already done.
But anyways, I talked to
him, and he said, yeah,
I heard about Paul.
I said, wait a minute, how
did you hear about Paul?
I mean, this is a
classified investigation.
Project Seven Lambs was
top secret, code word, SAP,
special access program,
sensitive compartmented
information.
Well, how did you get it?
He said, well, I got
it from Bill Moore.
OK, I just mentioned a
name that some people think
is a demon within ufology.
Well, in actuality, Bill
Moore, as some of you know,
who followed the story
was one of our sources.
He was a source.
Actually, we had Bill Moore
contact Paul, months and months
before, just as a reporter, to
see what Paul would tell Bill.
We more or less
tested Paul Bennewitz.
And unfortunately
for us, Bill Moore
gave Paul information
about our investigation.
When I put two and two together,
I confronted Paul, I mean,
confronted Bill Moore.
I said, Bill, what did you do?
He said, well, I was
just trying to see if I
could get Paul to do, say--
I said, you told him
about this investigation?
Well, a little bit.
I said, OK, you told Paul.
What about Hynek and Sprinkle.
Well, yeah, I told
them a little bit, too.
Well, that kind of ceased
some of our cooperation
with Bill Moore, and you
know what happened later on.
These are, it's hard to see, but
these are some of the symbols
that Paul got off his computer.
Now they're not hieroglyphics.
I have an expert
person, Jonny Enoch,
my very, very, very good
friend, who's, I consider,
an expert in this area.
I'm going to throw
this stuff at him
and see if he can translate it,
also my very good friend, Billy
Carson.
Congratulating him for
that award yesterday.
But we've done some
checking, and we
can't find anything
close to hieroglyphics,
Chinese characters,
Korean characters,
or Japanese characters.
So these are actual symbols
that came off Paul's computer.
It's not something
that he made up
because we had
photographed them.
We saw these things.
Now in this particular
display, we copied them down.
One of our agents
copied them down.
But we took pictures
off of them.
OK, enter the National Security
Agency, Project Jaggered Spear.
This is a project that they did.
This is the information
that came out
three years ago, about three
years ago, 2018 or '19.
This is what they did.
This is what National
Security Agency did.
This isn't what Rick Doty did.
This is what the National
Security Agency did.
They became involved
with Bob Bennewitz.
They wanted to know how
he collected signals, how
he was doing what he was doing.
Well, they thought he was
so smart that they gave him
$135,000 and a contract
to tell them or show them
how he did what he did,
as far as collecting
these unique signals or
frequencies from the laser.
Now, back in 1984, $135,000
was a lot of money.
I don't know quite the
equivalent in pounds,
but it's a lot of money.
It's a lot of money.
And what their object was
is duplicate what you did.
You know, NSA people
gave him equipment,
besides just the money,
and duplicate what you did.
And he did.
Paul did.
And not only did he
duplicate, Paul Bennewitz
got a contract to create,
in his laboratory,
something to collect signals.
Now, not only was
he collecting what
we were generating at the
laser complex, Starlight laser
complex, but Paul
developed a way, a method,
to collect signals
that were coming
in from space that were unique.
They were unique
frequency signals.
And I'm not a scientist.
I'm not a frequency
expert, so I can't
go into great details on that.
But they're signals
that are mimicking
what we have in space.
In fact, Paul Bennewitz was
in a very classified program--
and we can talk about it now
because it was released--
sending unique signals to
Voyager 1 and Voyager 2.
Now Voyager 1, and Voyager
2 was launched in 1977.
During this time
period, they were,
I think, near Jupiter or Saturn.
And NASA, National
Space Agency, had
a unique way, a signal
that they had to shoot up
and back and forth.
Well, Paul developed a different
way of doing that for NSA,
and it was still
highly classified.
OK, our investigation
ended in 1985.
And NSAs continued in 1988
because of the contract he had.
At no time during the
five-year investigation
that we had with Paul
did we ever give him
psychotropic drugs, which, story
out there that Rick Doty snuck
drugs into his drinks, did we
ever illegally enter his home,
bug his phones, place
cameras in his phone,
place a pen register.
A pen register is
something intelligence use
to know who you're dialing,
who you're calling.
In fact, when this
all started, I
asked Paul to sign a waiver,
a United States government
waiver.
He did.
I asked Paul if we could
have access to his home.
He gave us permission
to go into his home.
Did we go into his home?
Yes, but we had permission
to go into his home.
Did we place clandestine
or surreptitious devices
in his house?
Yeah, we did.
Unbeknownst to him?
Yes.
But after this was over with,
we told Paul everything.
And you know what Paul said?
I know what I did.
I know what I collected.
I know it's ETs.
I know you were just trying to
protect me back in those days,
and you're not going to
change my mind about it.
And so I maintained
friendship with Paul
right up to the
day he died, well,
two days before he passed away.
His wife didn't want
anything to do with me.
And his sons didn't want
anything to do with me,
but i maintained
friendship with him.
Paul Bennewitz wrote a
letter to President Reagan,
and I know you can't see it.
It's on the internet, and
I'll tell you how to get it.
He wrote a pretty nice
letter to President Reagan.
Of course, after he
wrote the letter,
there's a lot of questions
about why he wrote it
and the contents he had in
there and so forth and so on.
But one of the things
you got to understand
is Paul Bennewitz,
not only did he
photograph a classified
drone program, which he did.
I mean, he was doing that.
He never told anybody about it.
He tapped into a highly
classified project
on Kirtland Air Force Base,
that's one avenue over here
that he did, one particular box.
But on the other hand, Paul
was in contact with ETs.
I can say for a
fact now and having
spoke with a number of
people within the NSA,
they were thoroughly
convinced that Paul was
able to communicate with ETs.
We disavowed it
back in the '80s.
I did because I just didn't
think he could do it,
but he did.
He had contact.
That picture that I showed you,
I don't know what that is of.
I don't know if that's the
particular species of ETs.
I don't know if that's
a picture of a picture
that somehow it
got on his computer
that we can't understand.
And I tell you what, the
National Security Agency
is the best code breakers
and the best in tapping
into something like that.
If they couldn't figure
out how he did it,
I think the only answer
is the ETs put that there.
This is Manzano Storage
Area, and Paul's house
was just off the perimeter.
That's a map of
the storage area.
That's the actual case number
of Paul Bennewitz's case.
Now, at the end of
my investigation,
at the end of the Air Force
Office of Special Investigation
and DIA's investigation,
volumes of reports from me
and from all the
different agents
that worked with me, all the
different scientists, all
the different analysts,
and believe me,
this wasn't something
I did on my own.
As one particular
UFO researcher said,
oh, you probably
made all this up.
Yeah, right.
But after all this was done, I
was on assignment in Germany.
I was called and said, you need
to get back to Washington, DC
on such and such a date.
I said, what did I do wrong?
That's typical of anybody
who's been in the service
or in government services.
Why am I going
back to Washington?
What did I do?
You got an assignment for me?
We're not going to tell you.
Just get back here.
So I get on a plane.
I fly back to Washington, DC.
I'm met and I'm driven
out to the Pentagon.
I'm really thinking
I'm in trouble now.
I'm going to the Pentagon.
So I get in the Pentagon,
and these two people meet me,
two Army, one's a
major in the Army.
One's a Lieutenant Colonel.
He said, sir, we're
going to take you
into General Vessey's office.
I said, oh, OK.
General Vessey was the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff of the United States
military, back in those days.
When I went in there, I went in,
and I sat in an outer office.
Then I went into
an inner office.
And an aide came out
and said, General Vessey
wants you to come in and
sit down in the chair,
and he's going to ask
you some questions.
I said, wow, it would
have been nice to know
what he's going to ask
me, because I still
didn't know what I did.
He said, oh, he's
going to ask you
questions about some
investigations you did.
And he said, believe
me, General Vessey
is cleared for everything.
So I say, no problem.
So I go in.
He introduces himself, which,
of course, I already knew him.
I sat down, and the first thing
asked me about was Seven Lambs.
So I told him the story.
He said, you were recommended
for not only a step increase
but also a medal, the
intelligence medal.
And this is me, receiving
the secret award
because it was secret
because I couldn't keep it,
from General Vessey, who was
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff at that time.
So what I did during my time
investigating Paul Bennewitz
was all sanctioned
by the government.
I learned a lot of things,
including a citizen,
a private citizen can
make contact with ETs.
During my time
investigating it, there
was always a doubt
in my mind, but this
proved that Paul Bennewitz
was able to have contact
with an extraterrestrial race.
Now, I wish, I
mean, there's a lot
of things I wished
for during this.
Afterthoughts, everybody
has these afterthoughts.
Because, of course,
hindsight's 20/20 right?
I thought, well, I should have
done this, this, this and this.
And what I really
was sorry for is
that I wish these ETs
that he had contact with,
and he had contact almost
daily with this particular race
of ETs, I wish they
could have cured him.
Because the world is
not the same place
without Paul Bennewitz.
He was a fantastic human
being, a benevolent person,
very patriotic, loving
father, a loving husband,
and he was dedicated
to these things.
And another thing I
regret is we should have,
we, US Intelligence,
not NSA, should
have spent more time
in collecting what
he had the ability to obtain.
Can you imagine what we would
have learned from these ETs
if we were able to collect
what Paul was given?
Now Paul, of course, he was
somewhat irresponsible for not
doing what he was doing.
I mean, collecting data.
But in those days,
there wasn't any way.
We couldn't keep--
we didn't have
a thumb drive or a USB
port to collect things
on or take a picture or do
a screenshot on a computer.
We still couldn't figure--
I don't know that
they've ever figured out
how to get that image
off that computer.
And believe it or not,
you can believe it
or not, all that
information that Paul
gave us is in Washington, DC.
All of it's still there.
So closing, in
conclusion, of course,
that's my email if you want
to copy it down and send
questions.
I've written a book.
A lot of people out
here know I did.
I submitted a manuscript
to intelligence,
and they said, oh, you
got a 642-page book.
They took out 300
and some pages of it.
It didn't make any sense to
publish what I couldn't write.
So I hired an attorney.
Spent money to get it appealed.
I got appealed, and they
gave me 129 pages back,
but out of those 129 pages, a
lot of the stuff was redacted.
So I'm going to publish it.
So it will probably be
out here later this year.
And then on the
other hand, I'm going
to write a fictional
account of this.
[APPLAUSE]
They can't block that.
Thank you very much for
being a good audience
and good listeners.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]